docs: add contributing guidelines (#1091)
docarray/docarray: CONTRIBUTING.md

1. Work on this branch to do the fix/improvement.
1. Commit the changes with the [correct commit style](#writing-your-commit-message).
1. Make a pull request.
1. Submit your pull request and wait for all checks to pass.
1. Request reviews from one of [the code owners](.github/CODEOWNERS).
1. Get a LGTM 👍 and PR gets merged.

**Note:** If you're just fixing a typo or grammatical issue, you can go straight to a pull request.

### Associate with GitHub Account

- Confirm username and email on [your profile page](https://github.com/settings/profile).
- Set git config on your computer.

```shell
git config user.name "YOUR GITHUB NAME"
git config user.email "YOUR GITHUB EMAIL"
```

- (Optional) Reset the commit author if you made commits before you set the git config.

```shell
git checkout YOUR-WORKED-BRANCH
git commit --amend --author="YOUR-GITHUB-NAME <YOUR-GITHUB-EMAIL>" --no-edit
git log  # to confirm the change is effective
git push --force
```

### Install pre-commit hooks

In DocArray we use git's pre-commit hooks in order to make sure the code matches our standards of quality and documentation.
It's easy to configure it:

> 1. `pip install pre-commit`

Reviewer: should be replace by poetry install

1. `pre-commit install`

Now you will be automatically reminded to add docstrings to your code. `black` will take care that your code will match our style. Note that `black` will fail your commit but reformat your code, so you just need to add the files again and commit **again**.

#### Restoring correct git blame

Run `git config blame.ignoreRevsFile .github/.git-blame-ignore-revs`

## 📝 Code style conventions:

Most of our codebase is written in Python. 

### PEP compliance

> We comply to the official PEP: E9, F63, F7, F82 code style and required every contribution to follow it. This is enforced by using [flake8](https://github.com/PyCQA/flake8) in our CI and in our [pre-commit hooks](https://github.com/jina-ai/docarray/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#install-pre-commit-hooks).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We comply to the official PEP: E9, F63, F7, F82 code style and required every contribution to follow it. This is enforced by using [ruff](https://github.com/charliermarsh/ruff) in our CI and in our [pre-commit hooks](https://github.com/docarray/docarray/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#install-pre-commit-hooks).
```

### Python version
DocArray is compatible with Python 3.7 and above, therefore we can't accept contribution that used features from the newest Python versions without ensuring compatibility with python 3.7

### Code formatting

All of our Python codebase follows formatting standard. We are following the [PEP8](https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/) standard, and we require that every code contribution is formatted using [black](https://github.com/psf/black) with the default configurations.

> If you have installed the [pre-commit hooks](https://github.com/jina-ai/docarray/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#install-pre-commit-hooks) the formatting should be automatic on every commit. Moreover, our CI will block contributions that do not respect these conventions.

Author: don't think so, it talks about black and commit hooks, not just PEP

> If you have installed the [pre-commit hooks](https://github.com/jina-ai/docarray/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#install-pre-commit-hooks) the formatting should be automatic on every commit. Moreover, our CI will block contributions that do not respect these conventions.

Reviewer: okay my bad

### Type Hint

Python is not a strongly typed programming language, nevertheless the use of [type hints](https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html)  
contribute to a better codebase especially when reading, reviewing and refactoring. Therefore, we **require every contribution
to utilise type hints**, unless there are strong reasons for not using them.

Further, DocArray is type checked using **Mypy**, and all contributions will have to pass this type check.

Note: Example code in the documentation should also follow our code style conventions

<a name="-naming-conventions"></a>
## ☑️ Naming Conventions

For branches, commits, and PRs we follow some basic naming conventions:

* Be descriptive
* Use all lower-case
* Limit punctuation
* Include one of our specified [types](#specify-the-correct-types)
* Short (under 70 characters is best)
* In general, follow the [Conventional Commit](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#summary) guidelines

> Note: If you don't follow naming conventions, your commit will be automatically flagged to be fixed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

### Specify the correct types

Type is an important prefix in PR, commit message. For each branch, commit, or PR, we need you to specify the type to help us keep things organized. For example,

```
feat: add hat wobble
^--^  ^------------^
|     |
|     +-> Summary in present tense.
|
+-------> Type: build, ci, chore, docs, feat, fix, refactor, style, or test.
```

- build: Changes that affect the build system or external dependencies (example scopes: gulp, broccoli, npm)
- ci: Changes to our CI configuration files and scripts (example scopes: Travis, Circle, BrowserStack, SauceLabs)
- docs: Documentation only changes
- feat: A new feature
- fix: A bug fix
- perf: A code change that improves performance
- refactor: A code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature
- style: Changes that do not affect the meaning of the code (white-space, formatting, missing semicolons, etc.)
- test: Adding missing tests or correcting existing tests

> - chore: updating grunt tasks etc.; no production code change

Author: feel free to do so!

### Naming your Branch

Your branch name should follow the format `type-scope(-issue_id)`:

* `type` is one of the [types above](#specify-the-correct-types)
* `scope` is optional, and represents the module your branch is working on.
* `issue_id` is [the GitHub issue](https://github.com/jina-ai/docarray/issues) number. Having the correct issue number will automatically link the Pull Request on this branch to that issue.

> Good examples:
>
```text
fix-executor-loader-113
chore-update-version
docs-add-cloud-section-33
```

> Bad examples:
>

| Branch name     | Feedback                                              |
|-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| `FIXAWESOME123` | Not descriptive enough, all caps, doesn't follow spec |
| `NEW-test-1`    | Should be lower case, not descriptive                 |

> | `mybranch-1`    | No type, not descriptive                              |

Author: agree, you can remove

#### DCO and Signed commit

Commit need to be signed. Indeed the DocArray repo enforce the [Developer Certificate of Origin](https://developercertificate.org/) via the [DCO](https://github.com/apps/dco) github app

To do so you need to use the `-s` argument when commiting:

```
git commit -m -s 'feat: add a new feature'
```

#### What if I Mess Up?

We all make mistakes. GitHub has a guide on [rewriting commit messages](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/committing-changes-to-your-project/changing-a-commit-message) so they can adhere to our standards.

You can also install [commitlint](https://commitlint.js.org/#/) onto your own machine and check your commit message by running:

```bash
echo "<commit message>" | commitlint
```

### Naming your Pull Request

We don't enforce naming of PRs and branches, but we recommend you follow the same style. It can simply be one of your commit messages, just copy/paste it, e.g. `fix(readme): improve the readability and move sections`.

<a name="-testing-docarray-locally-and-on-ci"></a>
## 💥 Testing DocArray Locally and on CI

> Locally you can do unittest via:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Locally you can run the test via:
```

```bash

> pip install ".[test]"
> pytest -v -s tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
poetry install --all-extras
poetry run pytest -v -s -m "tensorflow" tests
```

or to run with the tensorflow tests

```suggestion
poetry install --all-extras
poetry run pip install protobuf==3.19.0
poetry run pip install tensorflow
poetry run pytest -v -s tests
```

# Contributing to DocArray

Thanks for your interest in contributing to DocArray. We're grateful for your initiative! ❤️

In this guide, we're going to go through the steps for each kind of contribution, and good and bad examples of what to do. We look forward to your contributions!

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [🐞 Bugs and Issues](#-bugs-and-issues)
- [🥇 Making Your First Submission](#-making-your-first-submission)
- [📝 Code style conventions](#-code-style-conventions)
- [☑️ Naming Conventions](#-naming-conventions)
- [💥 Testing DocArray Locally and on CI](#-testing-docarray-locally-and-on-ci)
- [📖 Contributing Documentation](#-contributing-documentation)
- [🙏 Thank You](#-thank-you)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

<a name="-bugs-and-issues"></a>

> ## 🐞 Bugs and Issues

Reviewer 2: Can we change all headings (and corresponding bullets in contents to sentence case? That matches our docs guidelines

## 📝 Code style conventions:

Most of our codebase is written in Python. 

### PEP compliance

We comply to the official PEP: E9, F63, F7, F82 code style and required every contribution to follow it. This is enforced by using [ruff](https://github.com/charliermarsh/ruff) in our CI and in our [pre-commit hooks](https://github.com/docarray/docarray/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#install-pre-commit-hooks).

### Python version
DocArray is compatible with Python 3.7 and above, therefore we can't accept contribution that used features from the newest Python versions without ensuring compatibility with python 3.7

### Code formatting

All of our Python codebase follows formatting standard. We are following the [PEP8](https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/) standard, and we require that every code contribution is formatted using [black](https://github.com/psf/black) with the default configurations.
If you have installed the [pre-commit hooks](https://github.com/jina-ai/docarray/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#install-pre-commit-hooks) the formatting should be automatic on every commit. Moreover, our CI will block contributions that do not respect these conventions.

> ### Type Hint

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Type hints
```

> Python is not a strongly typed programming language, nevertheless the use of [type hints](https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html)  
> contribute to a better codebase especially when reading, reviewing and refactoring. Therefore, we **require every contribution
> to utilise type hints**, unless there are strong reasons for not using them.
> 
> Further, DocArray is type checked using **Mypy**, and all contributions will have to pass this type check.
> 
> Note: Example code in the documentation should also follow our code style conventions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Python is not a strongly typed programming language. Nevertheless the use of [type hints](https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html)  
contributes to a better codebase, especially when reading, reviewing and refactoring. Therefore, we **require every contribution
to use type hints**, unless there are strong reasons for not using them.

Further, DocArray is type checked using **[mypy](https://mypy-lang.org/)**, and all contributions will have to pass this type check.

Note: Example code in the documentation should also follow our code style conventions.
```

> <a name="-naming-conventions"></a>

Reviewer 2: I think GH auto-adds anchor links. No need for this or other stuff like it

```
feat: add hat wobble
^--^  ^------------^
|     |
|     +-> Summary in present tense.
|
+-------> Type: build, ci, chore, docs, feat, fix, refactor, style, or test.
```

- ci: Changes to our CI configuration files and scripts (example scopes: Travis, Circle, BrowserStack, SauceLabs)
- docs: Documentation only changes
- feat: A new feature
- fix: A bug fix
- perf: A code change that improves performance
- refactor: A code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature
- test: Adding missing tests or correcting existing tests
- chore: updating grunt tasks etc.; no production code change

### Writing your Commit Message

A good commit message helps us track DocArray's development. A Pull Request with a bad commit message will be *rejected* automatically in the CI pipeline.

Commit messages should stick to our [naming conventions](#-naming-conventions) outlined above, and use the format `type(scope?): subject`:

* `type` is one of the [types above](#specify-the-correct-types).
* `scope` is optional, and represents the module your commit is working on.
* `subject` explains the commit, without an ending period`.`

> For example, a commit that fixes a bug in the executor module should be phrased as: `fix(executor): fix the bad naming in init function`

Reviewer 2: Change to DocArray specific thing?

feat: add remote api
```

> Bad examples:
>

| Commit message                                                                                  | Feedback                           |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|
| `doc(101): improved 101 document`                                                               | Should be `docs(101)`              |
| `tests(flow): add unit test to document array`                                                  | Should be `test(array)`            |
| `DOC(101): Improved 101 Documentation`                                                          | All letters should be in lowercase |
| `fix(pea): i fix this issue and this looks really awesome and everything should be working now` | Too long                           |
| `fix(array):fix array serialization`                                                            | Missing space after `:`            |
| `hello: add hello-world`                                                                        | Type `hello` is not allowed        |

#### DCO and Signed commit

> Commit need to be signed. Indeed the DocArray repo enforce the [Developer Certificate of Origin](https://developercertificate.org/) via the [DCO](https://github.com/apps/dco) github app
> 
> To do so you need to use the `-s` argument when commiting:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Commits need to be signed. Indeed, the DocArray repo enforces the [Developer Certificate of Origin](https://developercertificate.org/) via the [DCO](https://github.com/apps/dco) HitHub app.

To sign your commits you need to [use the `-s` argument](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/managing-commit-signature-verification/signing-commits) when committing:
```

```
git commit -m -s 'feat: add a new feature'
```

#### What if I Mess Up?

We all make mistakes. GitHub has a guide on [rewriting commit messages](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/committing-changes-to-your-project/changing-a-commit-message) so they can adhere to our standards.

You can also install [commitlint](https://commitlint.js.org/#/) onto your own machine and check your commit message by running:

```bash
echo "<commit message>" | commitlint
```

### Naming your Pull Request

We don't enforce naming of PRs and branches, but we recommend you follow the same style. It can simply be one of your commit messages, just copy/paste it, e.g. `fix(readme): improve the readability and move sections`.

<a name="-testing-docarray-locally-and-on-ci"></a>
## 💥 Testing DocArray Locally and on CI
Locally you can run the test via:

```bash
poetry install --all-extras
poetry run pip install protobuf==3.19.0
poetry run pip install tensorflow
poetry run pytest -v -s tests
```

### Test policy

Every contribution that adds or modifies the behavior of a feature must include a suite of tests that validates that the feature works as expected.

This allows:

> * the reviewer to be very confident that the feature does what it is supposed to do before merging it into the code base

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* the reviewer to be very confident that the feature does what it is supposed to do before merging it into the code base.
```

versions. Therefore, compilation is a two-step process:

1. **Step 1:** Compile using `protoc` version 3.19
   1. Download protoc v3.19 as appropriate for your system, e.g. from [here](https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf/releases/tag/v3.19.5)
   2. Unzip the file and make `protoc` executable: `chmod +x bin/protoc`
   3. Compile the protobuf definitions in the `pb2` directory. From `docarray/proto/` run `path/to/v-3-19/bin/protoc -I . --python_out="pb2" docarray.proto`.
2. **Step 2:** Compile using `protoc` version 3.21
    1. Download protoc v3.21 as appropriate for your system, e.g. from [here](https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf/releases/tag/v21.12)
    2. Same as above
    3. Compile the protobuf definitions in the `pb` directory. From `docarray/proto/` run `path/to/v-3-21/bin/protoc -I . --python_out="pb" docarray.proto`.

<a name="-contributing-documentation"></a>
## 📖 Contributing Documentation

Good docs make developers happy, and we love happy developers! We've got a few different types of docs:

* General documentation
* Tutorials/examples
* Docstrings in Python functions in RST format - generated by Sphinx

### Documentation guidelines

> 1. Decide if your page is a **guide or a tutorial**. Make sure it fits its section.

Reviewer 2: No tutorial section in docs

2. Use “**you**” instead of “we” or “I”. It **engages** the reader more.
3. **Sentence case** for headers. (Use [https://convertcase.net/](https://convertcase.net/) to check)
4. Keep sentences short. If possible, **fewer than 13 words**.
5. Only use `backticks` for direct references to code elements.
6. All **acronyms** should be UPPERCASE (Ex. YAML, JSON, HTTP, SSL).
7. Think about the **structure** of the page beforehand. Split it into headers before writing the content.
8. If relevant, include a “**See also**” section at the end.
9. Link to any existing explanations of the concepts you are using.

Bonus: **Know when to break the rules**. Documentation writing is as much art as it is science. Sometimes you will have to deviate from these rules in order to write good documentation.

[MyST](https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) Elements Usage

1. Use the `{tab}` element to show multiple ways of doing one thing. [Example](https://docarray.jina.ai/fundamentals/document/#document) 
2. Use the `{admonition}` boxes with care.
3. Use `{dropdown}` to hide optional content, such as long code snippets or console output.

> Note: Example code in the documentation should also follow our code style conventions that you can find above

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: Example code in the documentation should also follow our [code style conventions]().
```
Add link to the right place in this doc

1. Fork the DocArray repo and clone onto your computer. 
1. Configure git pre-commit hooks. Please follow [the steps](#install-pre-commit-hooks)
1. Create a [new branch](#naming-your-branch), for example `fix-docarray-typo-1`.
1. Work on this branch to do the fix/improvement.
1. Commit the changes with the [correct commit style](#writing-your-commit-message).
1. Make a pull request.
1. Submit your pull request and wait for all checks to pass.
1. Request reviews from one of [the code owners](.github/CODEOWNERS).
1. Get a LGTM 👍 and PR gets merged.

**Note:** If you're just fixing a typo or grammatical issue, you can go straight to a pull request.

### Associate with GitHub Account

- Confirm username and email on [your profile page](https://github.com/settings/profile).
- Set git config on your computer.

```shell
git config user.name "YOUR GITHUB NAME"
git config user.email "YOUR GITHUB EMAIL"
```

- (Optional) Reset the commit author if you made commits before you set the git config.

```shell
git checkout YOUR-WORKED-BRANCH
git commit --amend --author="YOUR-GITHUB-NAME <YOUR-GITHUB-EMAIL>" --no-edit
git log  # to confirm the change is effective
git push --force
```

> ### Install dependency with poetry

Author: ```suggestion
### Install dependencies using poetry
```

> We use [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) to manage our dependency.

Author: ```suggestion
We use [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) to manage our dependencies.
```

> To getting stared with DocArray development you should do

Author: ```suggestion
To get stared with DocArray development you should do:
```

```shell
pip install poetry
poetry install --all-extras # this will install all of the dependency needed for development
```

This will automatically create a virtual environment and install all the dependency from the `lockfile` of Poetry.

> To run your code you need to do either
> 
> Activate the environment 

Author: ```suggestion
To run your code you need to either activate the environment:
```

```shell
poetry shell
python XYZ
```

> or use `poetry run`

Author: ```suggestion
or use `poetry run`:
```

All of our Python codebase follows formatting standard. We are following the [PEP8](https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/) standard, and we require that every code contribution is formatted using [black](https://github.com/psf/black) with the default configurations.
If you have installed the [pre-commit hooks](https://github.com/jina-ai/docarray/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#install-pre-commit-hooks) the formatting should be automatic on every commit. Moreover, our CI will block contributions that do not respect these conventions.

### Type hints

> Python is not a strongly typed programming language. Nevertheless the use of [type hints](https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html)  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Python is not a strongly typed programming language. Nevertheless, the use of [type hints](https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html)  
```

#### DCO and Signed commit

> Commits need to be signed. Indeed, the DocArray repo enforces the [Developer Certificate of Origin](https://developercertificate.org/) via the [DCO](https://github.com/apps/dco) HitHub app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Commits need to be signed. Indeed, the DocArray repo enforces the [Developer Certificate of Origin](https://developercertificate.org/) via the [DCO](https://github.com/apps/dco) GitHub app.
```
